**1. Project Overview** (~1 paragraph)

I used the reviews for the move "Dead Poets Society" from IMDB's database. I first summarized the statistics and found out that exclusing the stopwords, the top ten dictions appeared in the reviews are  "film" (74), "one" (64), "movie" (63), "school"(42), "keating"(42), "williams"(41), "teacher(34), "life" (33), "society"(32), "dead"(29). Most of the top appearing words are associated with the genre or the theme of the movie. Next, I conducted a sentimental analysis to conclude the two paragraphs with the most negative and positive sentiments. I also used text similarity and clustering analysis to compare each paragraphs of review with the first paragraph as reference. Thourgh this project, I learned about how sentiments and similarities could be quantified as ratios and further help us as users of the program to make implications more efficiently. 

**2. Implementation** (~1-2 paragraphs)

The data that I imported from IMDB is in list type. When parsing through the data to create a word frequency dictionary, I removed both stopwords from the nltk library and all the punctuations including question, exclamarion, colons, and quotation marks. Because I wasn't sure how to efficiently extract the passage with the most positive and negative energy out from the data, I used Chatgpt for reference. Computing the similarity scores was a confusing part for me, since I didn't know what kind of text to refer to. At first, I tried to pull out another movie's review (The Holdovers), which is believed to have similar themes and the same genre with Dead Poets Society. However, the result wasn't as expected, the similarity between the two movies' reviews was all 0. At the end, I had choose another alternative option, which is to compare the similarity between all of the reviews for the same movie. This option worked and generated some optimal result. When clustering the texts using similarity ratios, Value errors occur often using the provided code. Therefore, I had to consult Chatgpt again for debugging purposes. It turned out that the value error occured because the dissimilarity ratios had to be symmetric. In order to process the ratios, Chatgpt provided me the code to convert the numbers into symmetrical square matrix. 

## chatgpt links: https://chat.openai.com/share/f3e6ea5f-a46a-4984-b075-8b43f4be4044; https://chat.openai.com/share/990cc905-692d-4b59-b3a4-51eaebdfee80

**3. Results** (~1-3 paragraphs + figures/examples)

While conducting the sentimental analysis, the result shows the most positive line had a score of 0.295, and negative line a score of 0.155. A lot could be implied from this result. First, the maximum negative score is lower than the positive score. This indicates that the movie, although sad, presents a healing/positive atmosphere to the audience that teaches them something about life. Second, the dictions in the most positive line are "good", "love", "enjoy", etc. that bring positve energy to the readers. However, the negative paragraph uses words like "hopeless", "die", and etc. that contribute to the relatively high negative score. 

    The most positive line: 
    There's so much good about this movie. The first time I saw it I watched it solely for plot and I loved it. Now I've seen it again and watched Peter Weir's filming and timing which is also great. Robin Williams is a terrific actor when he's serious. He proved it in Good Will Hunting but he proved it first here. If you liked that movie and your liking it had something to do with Williams than you will like this one. The plot is about a number of students who are taught by Williams about life. They are taught how to enjoy themselves. This ends up causing great controversy among the heads of the school. The students are terrific and even the dialogue is great. This is a movie that I can't imagine anyone not liking. It is good in every way.


    The most negative line: 
    At the end of the movie, Neil's dream of pursuing drama is hopeless and his life is hopeless. In the white night, Neil chose to die brilliantly.Neil's parents went to the school to press charges. The university blamed Keating entirely and put pressure on students to sign documents proving that Keating had "misled students" and "abused teacher influence" . Eventually, Keating got kicked out of the school.Before he left, Keating went back to the classroom to get something. He was replaced by President Nolan, who had expelled him.At the last moment before Keating leaves the classroom, Todd, who has always been shy and timid, stands up from his seat, blushes, jumps onto the desk and intones:O Captain! My Captain! Oh, captain! My captain!President Nolan angrily warned "Sit down!"Overstreet also stood at the desk.O Captain! My Captain!Pitts stood at the desk. Meeks stands at the desk. One by one, one by one.Let the headmaster shout "How dare you! "Out of this school! "Sit Down!"One by one, one by one.Standing one by one, it is clear that a bottle of torch, flourish.Keating tears, these once hesitated confused face, now are showing perseverance, courage, fearlessness. Burst out the light of life.Keating whispered "thank you."May you shine forever. Do not extinguish, do not dim, always holding the torch, efforts to shine, efforts to do the rain in the sun.  

Another analysis that I found interesting was the text similarity and clustering program. By comparing the other movie reviews with the reference (the first review), the output was [100, 42, 40, 43, 38, 43, 40, 44, 30, 41, 43, 37, 42, 27, 42, 43, 42, 38, 27, 35, 35, 40, 34, 43, 32]. The similarity score of 100 can be ignored as it is the first review compared with the reference. The others all have some kinds of similarity with each other, but no plajiourism. I think if we could use this score in identifying plajiourism, some kind of arbitrary threshold has to be established.A plot Text_Clustering_IMDB.png is generated. By looking at the difference between the dots and the overall trend, we can see that they are randomly distributes with almost same distance across the plot.  Furthermore, these scores fluctuate around 40, which means they are probably talking about the movie, but exploring to a different extent of the themes. 

**4. Reflection** (~1-2 paragraphs)

When writing the program, some of the functions, such as generating word frequency dictionaries and top ten most frequent word lists, went well for me. This is because we have been practicing writing such functions often in class and exercises. However, it was most difficult for me at first to import the review from IMDB, and later to generate text clustering analysis. These two fields are two functions that I have learned. I could probably improve by adding more details into the analysis. For example, I could remove more redundant words like protagonists' names and the movie's title to generate more specific text analysis, tailoring different perspectives of interpretation. But overall, I am satisfied by the current result of the project as it successfully revealed some interesting points about the movie and the sentiment behind the reviews. 

From a learning perspective, I learned new codes and new ways of thinking, mostly from Chatgpt. For instance, as I was pulling out the most negative and positive reviews, I had problem using my code as it had flawed logic. I was creating a list of scores, appending the scores in the loop to find the maximum score, and matching the maximum with the original to pull out the review. But this was too complicated and redundant. ChatGPT's logic was straightforward: compare each score with the lowest possible range and update the maximum variable whenever the if statement evaluated as true. It refined my code in a easier to understand logic line. Sometimes human brain cannot think like a computer and output a logical line of code that functions perfectly in a short amount of time. Although Chatgpt is an AI learning algorithm, it offers the easiest solution to technical problems efficiently and effectively. Maybe it cannot relate to true emotions, but only mimicing those; however, its response time is short and mathematical logic could inspire us when programming. (Just don't trust Chatgpt's entire code as it is often flawed and contain some mistakes).