# **Assignment 2 - Text Analysis Project**
### _By Alice Minkov-Temis_

## **Project Overview**
The data sources I used in this assignment were from Project Gutenberg (http://www.gutenberg.org/). I used two texts from there. The first one is 'Alice in Wonderland' by Lewis Caroll (https://gutenberg.org/cache/epub/11/pg11.txt) and the second one is 'The Great Gatsby' by F. Scott Fitzgerald (https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/64317/pg64317.txt). The techniques I used to analyze/process both of these texts were characterizing by word frequencies, computing summary statistics (ex. Top 10 words), removing stop words, Natural Language Processing, text similarity, and text clustering.I hoped to learn how to pull insights from text, find similarities, and understand how I can manipulate text data to find specific things I am looking for. I always wanted to try out new skills I have not used before, such as NLTK.

## **Implementation**
To start off, I processed the two text files to get rid of unneccessary components, such as the heading, credits, quotation marks, stop words etc., to ensure these unneccessary components would not interfere with my analysis. I created a dictionary, 'hist', as this was the easiest option for me when working with these two texts. Next, I ran several different functions, such as analyzing word frequencies, sentiment analysis, comparing the two texts, etc., to gather results about the texts. I decided to put the function of comparing texts into a seperate file as it was not executing correctly in the main file. To run the majority of the functions, I had to install multiple different packages and use 'pip install' as well to get the code running.

## **Results**
One interesting result I discovered was between the two texts, the similarity was only 55%. I also ran the NTLK for both of the texts, and 'Alice in Wonderland' received a 0.83 neutral score, while 'The Great Gatsby' received a 1.0 netural score. I ran word frequency on the texts to see what are the Top 10 most frequent words used. I realized the NTLK didn't make too much sense for books, but I wanted to run it to see how it works. I also created a chart consisting of plots comparing the two different texts for text clustering (seen in the image in this file). 

## **Reflection**
There were several aspects of the project that went well, such as successfully downloading the texts, effective executing the functions, and importaition of the necessary packages. The assignment created the desired results and I clearly understood what the results meant, relative to the input. I could improve by running more advanced functions and gathering more in-depth insighs from the texts. In terms of my personal coding expertise/skills, I think the project was appropriately scoped as I feel the functions ran were simple, but helped me understand what I was doing. The toughest part for me was implementing a second text, which I decided to do later in the project, and understanding how to seamlessly include it so the functions run properly on it. My testing plan was good as I took the code step-by-step and ran my code after each function, rather than in large chunks. One thing I could improve on is not implementing the second text so late into my project, since a couple of problems popped up with the functions when I tried to plug in the second URL to test.

Through this project, I learned the importance of a'main' function and its use, since I wasn't too clear on its purpose beforehand. Moreover, ovrall, I gained a better understanding of using correct Python syntax and how certain data structures work. ChatGPT helped me understand the more advanced functions, such as comparing texts and sentiment analysis, and I used ChatGPT heavily to debug my code a majority of the time. I also took a bunch of risks by implementing new functions we haven't learned before in class, which was a rewarding experience when they worked. Going forward, I will use my resilence and my problem solving skills heavily in the future when encountiring any challenges. Since this was a large assignment, I learned the importance of taking breaks to refresh myself if I got stuck, which suprsingly helped a lot. I also learned how to use ChatGPT more effectively when asking questions so the response would be more tailored to my question, and easier for me to understand. Before starting this project, I wish I learned the importance of what a 'main' function was used for. I understand we had a majoirty of exercises and homeworks related to creating a 'main' function, but this assignment really drilled the importance/use of it.
